feat: Document how to use a custom Update Module Mender for EU migration (#1998)
mendersoftware/mender-docs: 301.Troubleshoot/10.Hosted-Mender-migration/docs.md

]' > mender.new.conf
```

To perform the configuration update, another option can be a custom [Update Module](https://docs.mender.io/artifact-creation/create-a-custom-update-module). The following code is an example for this Update Module:

``` bash
#!/bin/sh

set -e

STATE="$1"
FILES="$2"

case "$STATE" in
    ArtifactInstall)
        # Backup of current conf file
        cp /etc/mender/mender.conf /etc/mender/mender.old.conf

        # Modify current conf file
        cat /etc/mender/mender.conf | jq '
.ServerURL = "" |   # Blank existing ServerURL
.Servers = [        # Set Servers array of ServerURL(s)
  {ServerURL: "https://hosted.mender.io"},
  {ServerURL: "https://eu.hosted.mender.io"}
]' > /etc/mender/mender.new.conf

        # Set the new configuration
        cp -f /etc/mender/mender.new.conf /etc/mender/mender.conf
        ;;
    
    NeedsArtifactReboot)
        echo "Automatic"
        ;;

    SupportsRollback)
        echo "Yes"
        ;;

    ArtifactRollback)
        cp -f /etc/mender/mender.old.conf /etc/mender/mender.conf
        ;;
    
    ArtifactCommit)
        # Delete used files

>         rm /etc/mender/mender.old.conf /etc/mender/mender.new.conf

Reviewer: Tip: If you use the `Cleanup` state instead of the `ArtifactCommit` state, the files will be correctly cleaned up both after a commit, and after a rollback (in runs in both cases). It's also more "semantically" correct to do cleanup there.

Author: You are totally right I change it to be more clear in the semantic

        ;;
esac
exit 0
```

> The example includes a way to rollback if the configuration ended up with a corrupted data (ArtifactRollback). After the update is perform a reboot is requested (NeedsArtifactReboot) to ensure the Mender services restarts and load the new configuration.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

```suggestion
The example includes a way to rollback if the configuration ended up unable to connect to the server (ArtifactRollback). After the update is perform a reboot is requested (NeedsArtifactReboot) to ensure the Mender services restarts and load the new configuration.
```

I guess connectivity issues are more likely than corruption in this particular scenario.

Keep in mind the Update Module file needs to be executable. For this example, the file will be named `migration-um-a`:

``` bash
chmod +x migration-um-a
```

### Create the Mender Artifact

Now create an Artifact with the updated `mender.conf` using the your current workflow to create
Artifacts. It is recommended to use a full system update artifact to update the configuration. However, you can also use the custom Update Module.

In order to use the Update Module, it needs to be installed in the device filesystem. To generate the artifact that installs the `migration-um-a` Update Module, the `single-artifact` Update Module can be used.

> Using the script [single-file-artifact-gen](https://github.com/mendersoftware/mender/blob/master/support/modules-artifact-gen/single-file-artifact-gen) makes this process easier.

Reviewer: You need to add this tag:

```suggestion
<!--AUTOVERSION "github.com/mendersoftware/mender/blob/%/"/mender-->
Using the script [single-file-artifact-gen](https://github.com/mendersoftware/mender/blob/master/support/modules-artifact-gen/single-file-artifact-gen) makes this process easier.
```
